---
short_name: kmroyer
name: Karen Royer, PhD
position: Graduate Student
---

Dr. Karen Royer has a Computational Media PhD from within the Interactive Media and Game Design program at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Worcester, Massachusetts. Her three related hybrid crafted and digital art projects created as part of a critical design inquiry integrated a craft, traditionally associated with women, with augmented reality and highlighted risks associated with AI applied as a tool or media without clear reflective goals. Karen worked as a fellow in the FORW-RD NRT Program with Yunus Telliel researching the broader impact of artificial intelligence and robots on the future of work. She applies analytical, research and professional practice skills to reveal gaps in future of work efforts. She collaborated from 2019 - 2022 with Professors Gillian Smith and Anne Sullivan as a Research Assistant in their Code Crafters project and co-authored journal articles, and generative design software, and presented the results of their workshops at GRiSTS and C&C. In the spring and summer of 2020, she led a team of software developers and 3D modelers, as one of the founding fellows of the Intentional Design Studio, creating an augmented reality learning module on the HoloLens for Professor Rob Dempski. Further, she developed and proposed two course curriculums, one for a synchronous virtual certificate program in Serious Games for a New York based University, and one for a graduated level design course in Designing Interpretive Computational Media. She led an independent study that resulted in a showcased game, taught a Critical Media Studies course and managed a group of 8 undergraduate and graduate students at WPI's Global lab. Several local and national indie game festivals showcased her unique games. A thirty-year arts practitioner, she received acclaim as an international original doll sculptor and received other awards for her reproduction doll making skills. She is a skilled artisan and enjoys a variety of crafts. Karen holds both a current PhD and MS from WPI.